("The Call of Spring")
♪ Now the mist has cleared
♪ As day is dawning
♪ It's all becoming
clearer to me ♪
♪ The seasons change
♪ As I change with them
♪ And the call of spring
♪ Gives me strength
♪ And courage to know
♪ I will make it through
♪ Whatever life throws at me
♪ Summer's sweet scent
♪ Autumn's whisper
♪ Winter stings with the cold
♪ When trouble comes
rolling in like thunder ♪
♪ Tears may fall
♪ Fear may call
♪ But with spring in my heart
♪ When seasons change
♪ I'll change with them
♪ And I know I can
weather the storm ♪
- Birk, what's gonna happen?
- [Narrator] As the clash
between Mattis and Borka
grew more intense, Ronja worried
about what might happen next.
Then she returned
home from the forest
to the awful sight of Birk,
who was captured by Mattis.
I hate you, she cried.
Ronja had always loved
her father dearly,
but now she only despised him.
(soft music)
Mattis!
- Here they come.
(footsteps)
(gasps)
(cries out)
- My boy!
(grunts)
(door creaks open)
(door creaks shut)
(floor creaks)
(footsteps)
(grunts)
(ominous music)
(footsteps)
- Birk!
Birk, are you alright?!
Mattis, you good for
nothing dirty beast!
Bring my son back
here this instant
or I'll tear off your legs
and rip out your eyes!
Do you hear me, you scoundrel?!
Do you have nothing
to say for yourself?
Or is it that you're
so ashamed of yourself,
you can't even speak?
Well?!
Say something, Mattis!
- Tell her to be quiet, Borka.
It would be better for
everyone if you listened
to what I have to say and
keep your woman out of this.
- Why are you just
standing there, Borka?
Why don't you say something?!
- You must have a
heart of stone, Mattis.
- Hey, stop!
Get your hands off me!
- You're a vile man.
I can understand that
you want me out of here,
but you must understand
that's my son,
my child who you used
to get what you want.
Have you no sense of shame?
- I didn't ask what
you think of me.
What I want to know is how soon
you'll be getting
out of my fort.
(growls)
(seethes)
- First I have to find
a place in the forest
where we can stay out of danger,
but that may prove
difficult for us.
That said, give me back
my son and I promise
that we will be gone
before the summer is over.
You have my word.
- Sounds good.
Then I in turn promise that
you will get your son back
before the summer is over.
- I meant, Mattis,
that I want my son back
right now.
- Well then you
better go right now.
(growls)
- You animal!
I hope the harpies
rip ya to pieces!
(gasps)
- Bet ya know, Borka, we have
dungeons here in Mattis' fort.
Your son won't want for
a roof over his head
or food on his plate,
so let that be a comfort to you
if it happens to be
a cold, wet summer.
(water drips)
(sniffles)
- I should just
destroy everything
then Mattis will
know how I suffer.
(water drips)
(dinging)
(whistling)
- What's wrong with you?
Don't you feel well?
(gasps)
(laughs)
Don't you want to play?
Here, watch once more.
(gasps)
Beat that!
If you can.
(sighs)
(dramatic music)
(gasps)
(grunts)
(wooshing)
(rumbling)
(gasping)
(gasps)
(grunting)
- You're not the only
people who have dungeons.
So your daughter will not
want for a roof over her head
or food on her plate either.
Comfort yourself with
that thought, Mattis.
- Yes, cry, I would do
the same if I had a beast
like that Mattis as my father.
- I'm warning you, be quiet.
You will not interfere in this.
(scoffs)
- How dare you!
(woman grunts)
(footsteps)
- Do you hear that, ya fool?
If you want to see
your daughter again,
you will return my son to me!
Mattis, will you bring
my son back over here
or do I throw your
daughter into our dungeon?
- You can have your son
back whenever you want.
- Whenever I want?
Shall we wait 'til
summer is over?
You want that?
- Whenever you want.
- Look, I am merciful,
not a scoundrel,
I'll do a fair
exchange with you.
If you give me back my
son, you will get back
your own child, you
heartless villain.
- I have no child.
(gasps)
(gasping)
I have no daughter.
- What's that supposed to mean?
Is this some sort of mischief
you're trying to brew up?
Is it?!
- Feel free to take
your son, Borka,
however I can't
take back my child.
For I no longer have one.
- But I do!
I do and I want her back!
(wooshing)
(crow crows)
Now you bring my child
back here, hear me?
Right now.
Borka!
Even if that child's
father has gone crazy,
as crazy as they come.
(footsteps)
(soft piano music)
Let's go.
(footsteps)
(sheep baa's)
(door creaks open)
(footsteps)
(door creaks shut)
- Look.
(sheep baaing)
(doors scrape open)
(footsteps)
- Where is Mattis?
- Who knows.
(sighs)
But somehow, I doubt he wants
to show his face to Ronja.
(footsteps)
(crow crowing)
(scoffs)
- And where's Mattis,
the child robber?
Hiding under a rock somewhere?
No doubt he's too
ashamed to show his face.
(sighs)
(scoffs)
(crows crowing)
- Home.
(footsteps)
(gasps)
(grunting)
- What are you doing?
- I won't leave my sister.
I owe her too much,
she saved my life.
- Sister who saved your life?
- Just as Birk, my brother,
saved me many, many times over.
- Your brother?
What's this?
My enemy's child thinks
you're her brother?!
- Listen to me,
she is my sister.
- Your sister?!
Oh yes, but that's
how it all starts,
and then the next
thing you know...
(grunts)
Come on, let's go!
- Get off!
I'll go!
(gasps)
But I don't need you,
so get your hands off me
and leave me alone!
(gasps)
(footsteps)
- Birk!
Don't go!
(footsteps)
(soft music)
(crows crowing)
(footsteps)
- Ronja, what is it
between you and that boy?
- [Ronja] You
wouldn't understand.
- Ronja?
Ronja!
- Stop it.
- Why?
Ronja!
Welcome home, Ronja!
(door creaks open)
Ronja?
(footsteps)
(soft music continues)
(sighing)
(footsteps)
(sighs)
(dice click)
(door creaks open)
- Ah, Ronja, I'm
glad you're alive
and back with us
where you belong.
Poor little child.
I've been so afraid
for ya, dear Ronja.
Ah.
(sighs)
(footsteps)
There's nothing but misery
in the fort these days.
(fire crackling)
(sighs)
I've got Mattis
staying in my room.
But he just lies there,
staring at the wall,
never says a word.
Doesn't wanna get up,
doesn't want to eat.
Oh, what should we
do with him, eh?
(sighs)
- He'll come to his senses
when he's hungry enough.
(footsteps)
(sighs)
♪ Wild wolf, please
♪ Leave us be
♪ I know you're prowling
♪ Out from the forest
♪ To come steal from me
♪ I know your pain
♪ Cubs hungry again
♪ But you won't
take mine from me ♪
♪ Wild wolf, please
♪ Why don't you feed
♪ On the scraps
that I leave you ♪
♪ I promise this
♪ If my child you kiss
♪ That's the last
thing you'll do ♪
(upbeat music)
- [Narrator] Next time on
Ronja, the Robber's Daughter...
"Moving Out".
Don't miss it.
(playful music)